New concept doc: design sign-up flows (#6128)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/design-sign-up-flows/index.md

## Entry points and account types

Different users, such as customers, partners, and contractors, often require different registration logic:

* **The question:** Where do users find the sign-up link, and does the entry point change based on their user type? Is the audience general (public self-service) or known (invitation-only)?
* **The recommended path:** Use **context-aware routing**. For multiple user types, use a centralized "chooser" page or subdomains (for example, `partners.example.com`). Route each group to an [Okta Profile Enrollment Policy](/docs/concepts/policies/) tailored for that user type.

The following diagram shows a sign-up flow that originates from the Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget:

<div class="full">

![Sign-up flow diagram 1](/img/signup-flow-1.png)

</div>

The following diagram shows an out-of-band sign-up flow, where registration is initiated through an external channel such as an email invitation sent to an employee or customer:

<div class="full">

![Sign-up flow diagram 2](/img/signup-flow-2.png)

</div>

## Friction vs. security

Every registration step is a potential drop-off point. Decide where to place the onus on the user:

> * **The question:** Which authenticators must users enroll in during sign-up, and what level of assurance is required to ensure these are real accounts?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The question:** Which authenticators that users must enroll in when they sign up, and what level of assurance is required to ensure that these are real accounts?
```

* **Toll Fraud Mitigation:** To reduce noise and avoid erroneous fees (including SMS toll fraud), implement bot detection like **reCAPTCHA** or strict [Rate Limiting](/docs/reference/rate-limits/) during the initial sign-up.

## Profile completion

Gathering data is essential for segmentation, but long forms deter users:

* **The question:** What specific attributes (for example, fob title, org ID) must the user provide immediately?
* **The recommended path:** Use **Required Attributes** sparingly. Limit the registration form to 3-5 essential fields. Use **Okta’s Profile Enrollment** to make these fields mandatory. To enrich profile data further, use [Okta Inline Hooks](/docs/guides/registration-inline-hook/). These pull information from external databases at registration time without adding friction for the user.

## Modern authentication (OAMP & passwordless)

Modernize the flow by promoting friction-free authentication methods:

* **The question:** How can you move away from traditional passwords to improve security and UX?

> * **The recommended path:** Promote **Passwordless and Passkeys** early in the flow. By using the [Okta Authentication Policy (OAMP)](/docs/concepts/policies/), you can allow users to sign up using biometric factors or email magic links. This significantly reduces the risk of credential-based attacks while speeding up the login process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The recommended path:** Promote **Passwordless and Passkeys** early in the flow. By using the [Okta Authentication Policy (OAMP)](/docs/concepts/policies/), you can allow users to sign up using biometric factors or email magic links. This significantly reduces the risk of credential-based attacks while speeding up the sign-in process.
```

## Group assignment and automation

Automating permissions ensures that users have immediate access without manual admin intervention:

* **The question:** How should you assign groups and handle specific MFA requirements?
* **The recommended path:** Use a [Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)](/docs/concepts/iam-overview-authorization-factors/) approach:

>   * **Assign with a policy:** Use the Profile Enrollment Policy to automatically add all new registrants to a "New Users" group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Assign with a policy:** Use the Profile Enrollment Policy to automatically add all new registrants to a New Users group.
```

>   * **Automate with rules:** Use [Group Rules](/docs/concepts/universal-directory/) to move users into functional groups (for example, "MFA_Required") based on attributes provided during sign-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Automate with rules:** Use [Group Rules](/docs/concepts/universal-directory/) to move users into functional groups (for example, `MFA_Required`) based on attributes provided during the sign-up process
```

>   * **Automate with rules:** Use [Group Rules](/docs/concepts/universal-directory/) to move users into functional groups (for example, `MFA_Required`) based on attributes provided during the sign-up process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Automate with rules:** Use [Group Rules](/docs/concepts/universal-directory/) to move users into functional groups (for example, `MFA_Required`) based on attributes provided during the sign-up process.
```

>   * **Opt-in flow:** If MFA is optional, map a "Use_2FA" checkbox to a custom boolean attribute. A Group Rule can then automatically add the user to a group targeted by a specific MFA policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Opt-in flow:** If MFA is optional, map a **Use_2FA** checkbox to a custom boolean attribute. A group rule can then automatically add the user to a group targeted by a specific MFA policy.
```

## Branding and aesthetics

A visual disconnect between your app and the registration form can reduce user trust:

* **The question:** How should you apply your brand’s look and feel to the form?

> * **The recommended path:** Use the [Okta Hosted Sign-In Widget](/docs/concepts/sign-in-widget/). It is the most secure way to maintain consistency. Use the [Okta Branding Tool](/docs/concepts/brands/) (or custom CSS) to match your company’s colors and logos, providing a seamless transition from your app to the login flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The recommended path:** Use the [Okta Hosted Sign-In Widget](/docs/concepts/sign-in-widget/). It's the most secure way to maintain consistency. Use the [Okta Branding Tool](/docs/concepts/brands/) (or custom CSS) to match your company’s colors and logos, providing a seamless transition from your app to the sign-in flow.
```

## The end-to-end UX and communication

The registration flow doesn't end when the user clicks **Submit**:

* **The question:** Is email verification required, and what do your automated communications say?
* **The recommended path:**
  * **Verification:** Always require [email verification](/docs/guides/authenticators-okta-email/) to prevent spam accounts.

>   * **Success landing page:** Upon successful registration, redirect users to a specific "Welcome" or "Getting Started" dashboard rather than just the generic login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Success landing page:** Upon successful registration, redirect users to a specific "Welcome" or "Getting Started" dashboard rather than just the generic sign-in page.
```

>   * **Branded prompts:** Ensure [SMS](/docs/guides/custom-sms-messaging/) and [email](/docs/guides/custom-email/) prompts are concise and branded. Match the "From" address and "Display Name" to your app name to prevent users from flagging messages as phishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Branded prompts:** Ensure [SMS](/docs/guides/custom-sms-messaging/) and [email](/docs/guides/custom-email/) prompts are concise and branded. Match the **From** address and **Display Name** to your app name to prevent users from flagging messages as phishing.
```
